Impact of the FTX collapse on Singapore's financial system and economy to be very limited

Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence Wong has said that key financial institutions in the country have "insignificant" exposure to cryptocurrency and players in the industry. Wong cited surveillance by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) over the issue.

The Finance Minister says that authorities do not have the number of Singaporean retail investors on FTX, as it is not licensed here and doesn't operate in Singapore.

MAS is taking action and making sure that potential investors have adequate protections in the wake of the FTX crash and other significant crypto bankruptcy. The financial regulator published a consultation paper on the proposed changes recently, and is planning to finalize them after receiving feedback from the industry and the public.

The news that one of the world's most popular cryptocurrency, FTX exchange, is filing for bankruptcy has left many people feeling like the future of crypto is n jeopardy. It seems this event is a very notable example of the volatility of this new industry, where the effects are still trickling in, from crypto prices plummeting to potential closures.

BlockFi has filed for bankruptcy on Monday, citing a liquidity crisis caused by the spectacular collapse of FTX.

The collapse of major crypto platforms like FTX has brought about much-needed rationalization in the cryptocurrency space.

"The repercussions of the cryptocurrency ecosystem globally are still unfolding, and we're watching this," said Mr. Wong

Financial institutions providing cryptocurrency services in Singapore, also known as digital payment token service providers, are regulated by MAS to minimise money laundering, terrorist financing and technology risks.

However, these digital payment tokens are not regulated in terms of their safety and soundness or investor protection. This is the prevailing approach in most jurisdictions.

“MAS has been consistently warning since 2017 that dealing in cryptocurrencies is hazardous and recent events have underscored these hazards,” he said.

There is no evidence that FTX is soliciting users in Singapore, therefore regulators do not have a reason to list them on their investor alert list.

Binance though was placed on the investor alert list for actively soliciting users in Singapore without a proper license, and is being investigated for possible violations of the Payment Services Act.

“This does not mean that all entities which are not listed on the (investor alert list) are safe to deal with. MAS cannot possibly provide an exhaustive list of all the unsafe or unlicensed entities that exist in the world,” the minister said.

While regulatory authorities are trying to make sure the law protects retail investors, Mr. Wong explained that statutory bodies such as MAS won't be able to prevent failed products or financial losses.

